# Astro Boilerplate

> [Jairus Joer](mailto:hello@jairusjoer.com), 2024

> The texts in this README were partially generated by artificial intelligence 
  and corrected and revised by us.

## Prerequisites

- **[Node.js (LTS)](https://nodejs.org/en)**

## Environment

Before creating a project, familiarize yourself with the `.env` or 
`.env.example` environment file.

> Changes to the environment file may require you to restart the development
  process, depending on the framework you choose.

```sh
APP_NAME="astro-boilerplate"
APP_ENV="development"
APP_DEBUG=true
APP_URL=""

DB_HOST="localhost"
DB_PORT=3306
DB_NAME=""
DB_USER=""
DB_PASS=""
```

| **Variable** | **Defaults**          |
|--------------|-----------------------|
| `APP_NAME`   | `"astro-boilerplate"` |
| `APP_ENV`    | `"development"`       |
| `APP_DEBUG`  | `true`                |
| `APP_URL`    |                       |
| `DB_HOST`    | `"localhost"`         |
| `DB_PORT`    | `3306`                |
| `DB_NAME`    |                       |
| `DB_PASS`    |                       |
| `DB_USER`    |                       |

## Setup

1. Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env` and open it in an editor of 
   your choice. The credentials and settings for the project are stored 
   in `.env`.

2. Fill in the options in the `.env` according to your requirements and run the 
   `install` command to install all necessary dependencies.

```zsh
npm install
```

## Development

After installing all necessary dependencies, run the following `dev` command to 
access the local development environment in the browser.

If available, access the project CMS using the credentials found in the 
Bitwarden password manager. If you don't have access to the required 
credentials, please contact the administration.

```zsh
npm run dev
```

The terminal prints out a URL to access the project website. Using hot reload, 
the website content is automatically updated when a modified file is saved.

## Deployment

To create a production-ready build of all the required assets, use the 
following `build` command to compile all the assets as defined by the bundler:

```zsh
npm run build
```

Alternatively, the repository can be connected to providers such as Cloudflare 
or Netlify for automated deployment, eliminating the need for manual build 
and deployment.

That's it. Now you can deploy your project to the desired production server 🎉

---

## Feature flags

> *Update the envinroment in the `.env` file to match the deployment*

- **`development`** – *Default*
- **`preview`** – *Default*
- **`production`** – *Default*
- **`specificUseCase`** – *Example for a specific use case using camel case*

The feature flags are utilizied through the `<Feature>` React component, 
which enables or disables rendering for wrapped elements based on the 
set environment. This component is usable in `.tsx` or `.astro` files and will 
be treated as static HTML by Astro, if not specified otherwise.

---

## Commands

> *See the projects `package.json` file for a list of all available arguments.*

| Command                   | Action                                           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`             | Starts local dev server at `localhost:3000`      |
| `npm run build`           | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `npm run preview`         | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`       | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro -- --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

---

## Contributing

Most questions about how to contribute to neuwaerts are answered in our guide:
<br>*[How to contribute to neuwaerts](https://github.com/neuwaerts/template/blob/main/contributing.md)*

## Documentation
Refer to the documentation for further questions about the nature of the 
project, and be sure to maintain and update the documentation:
<br>*[Documentation](/documentation.md)*

## Legacy codebases
To get an overview of how to get started working on legacy codebases, please 
refer to our guide:
<br>*[How to work with legacy codebases](https://github.com/neuwaerts/template/blob/main/legacy.md)*